So welcome to lecture two of
mind and reality.
What are the things I really
miss with the online lectures?
Is seeing all of your smiling
faces at the beginning of our
lectures and greeting many of
you as I go and hand out I used
to hand out handouts. I could
greet many of you individually.
I hope that we're going to find
some substitute for that.
Anyway, here's lecture 2. We're
going to start by thinking about
Russell's principle of
acquaintance. The question that
we are concerned with for this
part of the course. One of our
seven questions is how do our
thoughts connect to the things
about which we think?
When I say think here, I mean
that in a very broad sense. So
if you are, for example,
frightened that a Tiger is about
to bite you in being frightened,
you're thinking about the Tiger.
Likewise, once the Tiger has
bitten you, let's say, and
you're angry now with the Tiger
for biting bad Tiger.
In anger, you are thinking about
the Tiger. In this process of
thing in this broad sense of
thing. So, so we're using the
term think in a very broad sense
to include emotions that you
might have about a Tiger, or
about snake or some other thing.
Also, intentions desires. You
might want the Tiger to go to
its corner and learn not to bite
people. It's very bad. Tiger
naughty Tiger you are in this
process of thing thinking about
the Tiger as you are. If you
have some beliefs about the
Tiger, you believe that the
Tiger only bit you because it
was really upset about what the
snake did to earlier.
Or you know something, right? So
you may know that although the
Tiger bit you, it doesn't really
dislike you in any particular
way, it's just how it sort of
relates to things. Why hang out
with the Tiger? I don't know.
It's to illustrate the point
about thoughts. Isn't there? A
thought is really something very
broad and emotion, desire and
intention of belief and
knowledge state any of that will
include forward. Now I want to
take this question here. This
isn't quite the question that I
want to address, so I want to
just give this a slight twist.
It's something very closely
related and that will help us so
we can ask instead of that first
question, we can say. What sort
of relation between a subject
and an object has to obtain? If
the subject is able to think
about the object? Yeah, makes
sense. OK, so here's the
question. We're going to focus
on and the idea here is that the
subject is just that which
thinks. So if you have a
thought, you were the subject of
that thought. When I have a
thought on the subject of their
thought, if the Tigers thinking
gosh, you know, I really wish I
hadn't been her. The Tiger is
the subject of the thought,
right? I don't know why the
Tiger wood would think that, but
maybe it does anyway. There we
go. The answer that we are
interested in is given to us by
Bertrand Russell. The answer is
that the relation in question is
one of acquaintance. What
relates you to the things that
you think about when you're
angry that the Tiger bit you,
for example, is that relation
acquaintance? It's your
acquaintance with the Tiger that
enables you to have thoughts
about the Tiger. This of course
raises the interesting question
though what is acquaintance?
What is acquaintance? We gotta
work that out. OK, good, so
Russell tells us he says.
Acquaintance essentially
consists in a relation
acquaintance, essentially
consistent relation. That's very
good, so. If I have something
here, I haven't really got
anything handy. Actually I've
got a light bulb. OK, let me
show you a light bulb now. At
the moment I stand in relation
to this light bulb. I am from
your point of view I think left
of the light bulb. I'm very bad
at left and right, so perhaps
that's wrong. Anyway, I bear
some relation spatial relation
to the lightbulb. I'm at the
left or right of it. The light
bulb is certainly to my right,
so this is a relation or
relation is something that
connects two things now
importantly. Russell lacrosse
was really into his logic as you
will be very soon I'm sure
because your philosophers
mostly. A relation, something
that can only.
Relate things which actually
exist, right? So can we relate
things that exist? You can only
be acquainted with something if
it exists. Very good. So to say
that acquaintances relation is
already in a way quite
informative, although of course
everything is related to
everything we need to know which
relation it is. It's quite
informative. It is not
informative enough which
relation is acquaintance, Mr.
Well, he says it's a relation
between the mind and something
other than the mind. Very good.
But what's that relation? What's
that relation? Well, Russell
says we have acquaintance of
anything with which we are
directly aware directly. What's
that? That means in this
context, says Russell.
Without the Intermediary.
I've only process of inference
or any knowledge of truth.
So it's a relation that we bear
independently of anything that
we might know or believe about.
The light bulb, or anything that
we might infer about the light
bulb does mean the light bulb.
I'm Russell goes on and he tells
us that there are these. Things
which are thought to be most
acquaintance. So things like
perception my preceding the
light bulb period is I'm
receiving your preceding it so
in virtue of preceding it we are
acquainted with it perception,
motor acquaintance or, you know
take the light bulb weight and
now you remember the light bulb
and said why. So we're
acquainted with it through
memory. There may be other ways
that we can be acquainted with
things, so self awareness or
attention. Who knows these maybe
modes acquaintance. So now we've
got some understanding what this
idea of acquaintances,
acquaintances are relation
between a mind and an object.
Which is involves awareness, but
not just any old kind of
awareness. Awareness which is
direct in the sense that it
doesn't involve the intermediary
of knowledge of truth or
inference, is marvelous.
Russell goes on, and just as
you'd expect, he says, knowledge
by acquaintance is essentially
simpler than knowledge of truths
and logically independent of
knowledge of truths. I think
that's sort of implied by what
he's just said, but it's a
terribly important ideas,
because the thought here is
this. Our question is, how is it
that you can have a thought
about a thing? I'm Russell, says
acquaintances of relation, which
is actually more primitive than
thought, and one which can
explain thought. This is a
radical idea, and if I
Interestingly now most
philosophers in the 21st century
don't believe this or they've
lost sight of this inside. If it
is an insight, so it's a view
that's both fallen out of
favour, is widely regarded as
incorrect now for the purposes
of this course is up to you to
make up your mind whether you
think it's correct or not. All
I'm telling you is it's worth
thinking about. Is there a
relation one which involves
awareness of some kind?
That is more primitive than
any kind of thought and
independent of it which can
explain how it's possible for
you to have thoughts about
things.
Very good, So what is the
principle of acquaintance?
That's very important that you
know this is one of the seminar
tasks, of course, is to state
the principle acquaintance.
Here's what you should say.
Every proposition which we can
understand must be composed
wholly of constituents with
which were acquainted. Now, as
you may already know, Russell
actually stated the principle in
three or four different ways. I
do think there are equivalent.
You can state in any of the ways
that Russell stated it, and that
will be fine. And if we are
particularly interested in going
deeper here, we might try to
work out how these things are
related. The different ways that
Russell formulated it, but
here's the principle of
acquaintance. That's what I'm
going to be our Canonical
Formulation. Every proposition
which we can understand must be
composed wholly of constituents
with which were acquainted. Now
there's a couple of things here
before I go on this couple of
things here, which are
mysterious at the moment, or
hope their mysteries. So one is
this notion of proposition comes
at anything at all about
propositions that's going to
come later, and the other thing
that we're interested in is
constituents of propositions. So
what do we mean by constituents
here? I'm going to leave that
for the moment, so it may be
that you're feeling quite
confused. And if that's the
case, that's good. You're right
to feel confused. I'm afraid
that a lot of velocity is belt.
Being confused, realizing you're
confused and understanding why
you're confused and this is one
of those occasions, but we will
fill in some of the details
later next week. OK, so in
Russell's claim of course about
this principle is that all our
knowledge, both knowledge of
things and knowledge of truths,
rests upon acquaintance as its
foundation. It's not the same
principle, I'm not sure. Is that
the principles that
consequences. It's very
difficult to know. I would take
this. This is a fine formulation
of the principle acquaintance as
well. That's what I would. What
have we done here? We've asked
the question. How is it that
our thoughts are connected?
The things about which we
think we said the answer is
possibly acquaintance.
And then we've tried to
understand what Russell
means by acquaintance.
And finally.
We stated the principle of
acquaintance.
So far so good.